# 3.1 Transportation and Economic Development:

"High-density transport infrastructure and highly connected networks are commonly associated with high levels of development. When transport systems 
are efficient, they provide economic and social opportunities and benefits that result in positive multiplier effects, such as better accessibility to 
markets, employment, and additional investments."

geographical dimension: Access to a broader market base where economies of scale in production, distribution, and consumption can be improved. 
Increases in productivity from the access to a larger and more diverse base of inputs (raw materials, parts, energy, or labor) and broader markets for 
diverse outputs (intermediate and finished goods). Another important geographical impact concerns the influence of transport on the location of 
activities and its impacts on land values.

Transportation links together the factors of production in a complex web of relationships between producers and consumers. The outcome is commonly a 
more efficient division of production by the exploitation of comparative geographical advantages, as well as the means to develop economies of scale 
and scope. 

## 2. Transportation and Economic opportunities
Seaports. The historical importance of seaports in trade has been enduring. Seaports supported the early development of international trade through 
colonial empires but were constrained by limited inland access. Later in the industrial revolution, many ports became important industrial platforms. 
With globalization and containerization, seaports increased their importance in supporting global trade and supply chains. The cargo handled by 
seaports reflects the economic complexity of their hinterlands. Simple economies are usually associated with bulk cargoes, while complex economies 
generate more containerized flows. Technological and commercial developments have incited a greater reliance on the oceans as an economic and 
circulation space.

Rivers and canals. River trade has prevailed throughout history, and even canals were built where no significant altitude change existed since lock 
technology was rudimentary. The first stage of the Industrial Revolution in the late 18th and early 19th centuries was linked with the development of 
canal systems with locks in Western Europe and North America, mainly to transport heavy goods.

No single transport mode has been solely responsible for economic growth. Instead, modes have been linked with the economic functions they support and 
the geography in which growth was taking place.

The first trade routes established a rudimentary system of distribution and transactions that would eventually be expanded by long-distance maritime 
shipping networks and the setting of the first multinational corporations managing these flows.

port development, particularly container ports, has been of strategic interest as a tool of integration into the global economy, as the case of China 
illustrates. There is a direct relationship, or coordination, between foreign trade and container port volumes, so container port development is 
commonly seen as a tool to capture the opportunities brought by globalization. The growth of container shipping has systematically been 3 to 4 times 
the GDP growth rate, underlining a significant multiplier effect between economic growth and container trade. However, this multiplying effect has 
substantially receded since 2009, underlining the maturity of the diffusion of containerization and its dissociation from economic growth.

 - Factors behind DEvelopment of Transportation systems: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transportation-and-economic-development/factors-behind-the-development-of-transport-systems/
 - Economic Impacts of Transportation Infrastructure: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transportation-and-economic-development/transport-infrastructure-economic-impacts/
 - Basic Location Factors: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter2/transport-and-location/location-factors-basic/
 - Dutch East India Company, TRade Network (18th century): https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter1/emergence-of-mechanized-transportation-systems/dutch-east-india-company-trade-network/
 - Phases of Development of the Global Economy: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter1/the-setting-of-global-transportation-systems/global-economy-development-phases/
 - Long Wave Cycles of Innovation: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transportation-and-economic-development/innovation-long-wave-cycles/
 - Resource-Based Transport Systems: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transportation-and-economic-development/transport-system-resources/
 - Diffussion Cycle of Containerization: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transportation-and-economic-development/containerization-diffusion-cycles/

# 3.3 Transportation costs
The transport time component is also an important consideration as it is associated with the service factor of transportation. They include the 
transport time, the order time, the timing, the punctuality, and the frequency. For instance, a maritime shipping company may offer a container 
transport service between several North American and Pacific Asian ports. It may take 12 days to service two ports across the Pacific (transport time), 
and a port call is done every two days (frequency). To secure a slot on a ship, a freight forwarder must call at least five days in advance (order 
time). For a specific port terminal, a ship arrives at 8 AM and leaves at 5 PM (timing), with the average delay being six hours (punctuality).

LArger containerships involve lower unit costs (economy of scale)

The efficiency and capacity of transport modes and terminals directly impact transport costs. Poor infrastructures imply higher transport costs, 
delays, and adverse economic consequences. More developed transport systems tend to have lower transport costs since they are more reliable, 
connected, and can handle more movements.

 - Cost to Import a 20 ft container (2015): https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transport-costs/import-costs-container-teu/
 - Different Components of Transport Time: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transport-costs/transport-time-components/
 - Friction Distance Functions: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transport-costs/friction-distance-functions/
 - Freight Rates in TEU Between Singapore and Rotterdam: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/transport-costs/freight-rates-singapore-rotterdam-teu/

# 3.4 The Provision and Demand for Transportation
Transport demand that is met by a supply of transport services generates traffic (trucks, trains, ships, airplanes, buses, bicycles, etc.) on the 
corresponding transport infrastructure networks. The traffic capacity is generally larger than the actual transport demand since the average 
utilization level of vehicles rarely reaches 100 percent. This involves, for instance, empty hauls of trucks, an underutilized container ship capacity 
sailing on a shipping route characterized by imbalanced container flows.

Several factors impact the capacity of transport infrastructure, including the physical characteristics of the network, how it is funded, operated, 
and maintained, or the presence of bottlenecks. Transport supply can be simplified by a set of functions representing the main variables influencing 
the capacity of transport systems. These variables are different for each mode. air and maritime transportation transport supply is strongly 
influenced by the capacity of the terminals (intermodal supply).

 - Types of Transportation Demand: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/types-transportation-demand/
 - Static and Dynamic Capacity of Transport Infrastructure: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-infrastructure-static-dynamic-capacity/
 - Factors behind Freight Transport Demand: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-demand-factors/
 - Growth Factors in Transport Demand: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-demand-growth-factors/
 - The Functions of Transport Supply and Demand: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-supply-demand/
 - Intermodal Capacity on Transport Supply: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-supply-modal-competition/
 - Major Supply Variables for Transportation Modes: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-modes-sypply-variables/
 - Factors behind Freight Transport Demand: https://transportgeography.org/contents/chapter3/provision-and-demand-of-transportation/transport-demand-factors/
 